tutorials/rip/doc/step3.rst, before:

Step 3. Link Breakage
=====================

Goals
-----

TODO: routes will be added by RIP...then a link break is scheduled by
:ned:`ScenarioManager`. SplitHorizon is enabled. RIP should update the
routes to indicate that the link is broken

The model
---------

TODO: what is SplitHorizon

This step uses the same network as the previous one.

The configuration in ``omnetpp.ini`` is the following:

.. literalinclude:: ../omnetpp.ini
   :language: ini
   :start-at: Step3
   :end-before: ------

The scenario manager script:

.. literalinclude:: ../scenario2.xml
   :language: xml

Results
-------

TODO: video

.. video:: media/step3_linkbreak.mp4
   :width: 100%

..   <!--internal video recording, normal run from 31s to 71+s, animation speed none, playback speed 2.138-->

TODO: what happens

TODO: maybe routing tables and screenshots of RIP packets

Sources:
:download:`omnetpp.ini <../omnetpp.ini>`,
:download:`RipNetworkA.ned <../RipNetworkA.ned>`,
:download:`scenario2.xml <../scenario2.xml>`

Commit message:

RIP steps 1-3, from Ahmet Sekercioglu

tutorials/rip/doc/step3.rst, after:

Step 3. Link Breakage
=====================

Goals
-----

We demonstrate how RIP updates the routing tables after changes occur in a
network topology.

Network Configuration
---------------------

We keep the network configuration same as the previous step, except that we will
schedule a break with the help of :ned:`ScenarioManager`. RIP should update the routing
information in the routing tables of routers to eliminate the references to the
broken link. Here, for the reliable convergence of routing tables, we need to
enable SplitHorizon though (we will postpone discussion of this issue until
Step 6 of the tutorial).

The configuration in ``omnetpp.ini`` is the following:

.. literalinclude:: ../omnetpp.ini
   :language: ini
   :start-at: Step3
   :end-before: ------

The last line in the above figure is for scheduling a break. The
``scenario2.xml`` file contains these lines:

.. literalinclude:: ../scenario2.xml
   :language: xml

Experiment
----------

In the video below observe that at t=50 seconds, as directed by ``scenario2.xml``,
the link connecting ``router2`` and ``switch2`` breaks (note that the video starts
approximately at t=30, after the routing tables stabilize).


.. video:: media/step3_linkbreak.mp4
   :width: 100%

..   <!--internal video recording, normal run from 31s to 71+s, animation speed none, playback speed 2.138-->

TODO explain why arrow from host6 remains: It is a static route. RIP only controls routes between routers,
and host routes are statically configured by :ned:`Ipv4NetworkConfigurator`.


Sources:
:download:`omnetpp.ini <../omnetpp.ini>`,
:download:`RipNetworkA.ned <../RipNetworkA.ned>`,
:download:`scenario2.xml <../scenario2.xml>`
